README.md, before:

# Amman

**A** **m** odern **man** datory toolbelt to help test solana SDK libraries and apps on a locally
running validator.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [API](#api)
- [CLI](#cli)
  - [Commands: start](#commands-start)
    - [Sample Validator/Relay/Storage Config](#sample-validatorrelaystorage-config)
- [LICENSE](#license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## API

Aside from providing a CLI for various tasks, amman also provides commonly used actions,
transactions, asserts and more via an API. Please find the [API docs here](https://metaplex-foundation.github.io/amman/docs/).

## CLI

```sh
amman [command]

Commands:
  amman start    Launches a solana-test-validator and the amman relay and/or
                 mock storage if so configured
  amman stop     Stops the relay + storage and kills the running solana test
                 validator
  amman airdrop  Airdrops provided Sol to the payer
  amman label    Adds PublicKey labels to amman

Options:
  --help     Show help                                                 [boolean]
  --version  Show version number                                       [boolean]
``` 

### Commands: start

```sh
amman start <config.js>
```

If no `config.js` is provided _amman_ looks for an `.ammanrc.js` file in the current directory.
If that isn't found either it uses a default config.

The config should be a JavaScript module exporting 'validator' with any of the below
properties:

- killRunningValidators: if true will kill any solana-test-validators currently running on the system.
- programs: bpf programs which should be loaded into the test validator
- jsonRpcUrl: the URL at which the test validator should listen for JSON RPC requests
- websocketUrl: for the RPC websocket
- ledgerDir: where the solana test validator writes the ledger
- resetLedger: if true the ledger is reset to genesis at startup
- verifyFees: if true the validator is not considered fully started up until it charges transaction fees

#### Sample Validator/Relay/Storage Config

Below is an example config with all values set to the defaults except for an added
program and a `relay` and `storage` config.

A _amman-explorer relay_ is launched automatically with the validator unless it is running in a
_CI_ environment and if a relay is already running on the known _relay port_, it is killed
first.

A _mock storage_ is launched only if a `storage` config is provided. In case a storage server
is already running on the known _storage port_, it is killed first.

```js
import { LOCALHOST, tmpLedgerDir } from '@metaplex-foundation/amman'

module.exports = {
  validator: {
    killRunningValidators: true,
    launchExplorerRelay: process.env.CI == null,
    programs: [
      { programId: programIds.metadata, deployPath: localDeployPath('mpl_token_metadata') },
    ],
    jsonRpcUrl: LOCALHOST,
    websocketUrl: '',
    commitment: 'singleGossip',
    ledgerDir: tmpLedgerDir(),
    resetLedger: true,
    verifyFees: false,
  },
  relay: {
    killlRunningRelay: true,
  },
  storage: {
    enabled: process.env.CI == null && process.env.NO_STORAGE == null,
    storageId: 'mock-storage',
    clearOnStart: true,
  },
}
```

## LICENSE

Apache-2.0

Commit message:

cli: minor command tweaks + doc update

README.md, after:

# Amman

**A** **m** odern **man** datory toolbelt to help test solana SDK libraries and apps on a locally
running validator.

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [API](#api)
- [CLI](#cli)
  - [Commands: start](#commands-start)
    - [Sample Validator/Relay/Storage Config](#sample-validatorrelaystorage-config)
- [LICENSE](#license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## API

Aside from providing a CLI for various tasks, amman also provides commonly used actions,
transactions, asserts and more via an API. Please find the [API docs here](https://metaplex-foundation.github.io/amman/docs/).

## CLI

```sh
amman [command]

Commands:
  amman start    Launches a solana-test-validator and the amman relay and/or
                 mock storage if so configured
  amman stop     Stops the relay and storage and kills the running solana test
                 validator
  amman airdrop  Airdrops provided Sol to the payer
  amman label    Adds labels for accounts or transactions to amman
  amman account  Retrieves account information for a PublicKey or a label or
                 shows all labeled accounts
  amman run      Executes the provided command after expanding all address
                 labels

Options:
  --help     Show help                                                 [boolean]
  --version  Show version number                                       [boolean]
``` 

### Commands: start

```sh
amman start <config.js>
```

If no `config.js` is provided _amman_ looks for an `.ammanrc.js` file in the current directory.
If that isn't found either it uses a default config.

The config should be a JavaScript module exporting 'validator' with any of the below
properties:

- killRunningValidators: if true will kill any solana-test-validators currently running on the system.
- programs: bpf programs which should be loaded into the test validator
- jsonRpcUrl: the URL at which the test validator should listen for JSON RPC requests
- websocketUrl: for the RPC websocket
- ledgerDir: where the solana test validator writes the ledger
- resetLedger: if true the ledger is reset to genesis at startup
- verifyFees: if true the validator is not considered fully started up until it charges transaction fees

#### Sample Validator/Relay/Storage Config

Below is an example config with all values set to the defaults except for an added
program and a `relay` and `storage` config.

A _amman-explorer relay_ is launched automatically with the validator unless it is running in a
_CI_ environment and if a relay is already running on the known _relay port_, it is killed
first.

A _mock storage_ is launched only if a `storage` config is provided. In case a storage server
is already running on the known _storage port_, it is killed first.

```js
import { LOCALHOST, tmpLedgerDir } from '@metaplex-foundation/amman'

module.exports = {
  validator: {
    killRunningValidators: true,
    launchExplorerRelay: process.env.CI == null,
    programs: [
      { programId: programIds.metadata, deployPath: localDeployPath('mpl_token_metadata') },
    ],
    jsonRpcUrl: LOCALHOST,
    websocketUrl: '',
    commitment: 'singleGossip',
    ledgerDir: tmpLedgerDir(),
    resetLedger: true,
    verifyFees: false,
  },
  relay: {
    killlRunningRelay: true,
  },
  storage: {
    enabled: process.env.CI == null && process.env.NO_STORAGE == null,
    storageId: 'mock-storage',
    clearOnStart: true,
  },
}
```

## LICENSE

Apache-2.0
